Flex Ltd (NASDAQ:FLEX)
Q3 2020 Earnings Call
Jan 30, 2020, 5:00 p.m. ET

Contents:
Prepared Remarks
Questions and Answers
Call Participants
Prepared Remarks:
Operator

Good afternoon, and welcome to the Flex Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2020 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded and all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.

At this time, for opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. David Rubin, Flex's Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

David Rubin -- Vice President, Investor Relations

Good afternoon. Thank you for joining Flex's third quarter of fiscal 2020 conference call. Slides for today's discussion are available on the Investor Relations section of our flex.com website. Joining me on today's call with some introductory remarks will be our Chief Executive Officer, Revathi Advaithi and our Chief Financial Officer, Chris Collier.

Today's call is being webcast and recorded and contains forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could materially differ. Such information is subject to change, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties, see our most recent filings with the SEC, including our current annual and quarterly reports. This call references non-GAAP financial measures for the current period that can be found in our appendix slides. Otherwise, they are located on the Investor Relations section of our website along with required reconciliations.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to our CEO. Revathi?

Revathi Advaithi -- Chief Executive Officer

Thank you, David, and welcome to your first Flex earnings call. Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for joining us on the call today. I'm excited to provide some context to our strong results for the third quarter and update you on the progress we're making through this very dynamic and transformational period for Flex. But before I start, I want to thank all our Flex employees who across the globe continue to deliver on our commitments to our customers and who worked really hard to execute with discipline to increase value to all our stakeholders. So I want to express my sincere thanks to our employees for their efforts and also to our customers for their continued partnership.

So let's go to slide three. So over the last couple of quarters, I've discussed the initial direction of our company strategy and our approach to managing our business. So as promised, we're looking forward to sharing more details on our strategy at our upcoming Investor and Analyst Day on March 11th in New York City. But today, I'll focus on the third quarter financial performance, which I'm very pleased to say delivered on our goals and our guidance.

So we'll start with the financials. We achieved a revenue of $6.5 billion. This is a result of our continued growth in our industrial segments, our energy and our automotive businesses and as well as continuing to progress on executing our mix strategy. We realized an adjusted operating margin of 4% and this reflects our focus on disciplined execution and portfolio management. And we delivered a record level adjusted EPS of $0.38, which was above our Q3 guidance range and generated an adjusted free cash flow of $238 million, which is a testament to our continued focus on operational discipline and improved execution.

I want to actually start with a -- to talk about the coronavirus outbreak. As expected, our primary concern is of the safety of our employees and their families. What we have done is deployed our response teams to take proactive steps to help our employees and we'll continue to adapt as necessary as the situation plays out. We are actively monitoring this developing situation, and we'll work hard to limit business disruptions. We're supporting all official efforts to contain the outbreak and we are fully cooperating with the government officials across China. We'll also be looking to help this cause wherever we can through the Flex Foundation. Of course, beyond that, it's too early for us to quantify any potential impact as the situation is evolving. I want you to be rest assured that we have a very detailed and comprehensive plan and will actively manage the situation in a very disciplined way.

So let's turn to slide four. What Q3 really reflects is how we've continued our approach to managing the business. By improving our mix and our profitability, we have driven disciplined execution and we have pursued design-led opportunities and all this along with managing our cash flow and capital allocation. Now this is exactly the game plan we discussed with you three quarters ago. We've done a tremendous job executing on our business mix strategy and as well as managing our costs, not only to meet our commitments but also to enable continued investment in technology and design expertise. I strongly believe that our focus has strengthened our position around significant macro trends and future growth markets, such as electrification and 5G. And of course, all this will lead to profitable growth, which is a very important pillar of our strategy.

As I continue to speak to current and prospective customers, I'm really energized by growing opportunities to partner and create value for our customers and for Flex. Our focus is on solving our customers' most critical manufacturing challenges and we want to be a market share leader in the spaces we participate. As always, I'd like to share some examples of some recent wins that will really demonstrate our capabilities across our businesses.

You can see in our Q3 results that our industrial and energy segment continues to be exceptionally strong and is building on the pipeline -- on the strength of some solid business wins. So one example is a complex large form factor capital equipment project that we recently won. Our solution included engineering and designing of the large mechanical frame and the interconnect system as well as assisting the customer and the design of the HMI or the human-machine interface. Of course, one of the key differentiators was our regional manufacturing capability because we needed to support the customers' needs in both North America and Asia. But this combined with our design capability made this a winning proposition. And we continue to see interest from companies in this space who are looking to partner with us not only to leverage our manufacturing expertise but also our design expertise, particularly in the areas of power, energy and capital equipment.

The next example is out of our automotive business, which has made a lot of positive progress despite the global economic headwinds facing this industry. We've made a lot of inroads into the autonomous space and I've talked about this before in the other calls we've had. But this time, we added another major win in China with an indigenous Chinese OEM. We also continue to expand our position in electrification and recently won an integrated battery management solution for a German OEM. What both these wins show is that we can leverage the technical expertise not only in our automotive business but also in our power and our compute engineering groups. Here, we are seeing the benefit of early collaboration and leveraging our broad capabilities, including connectivity and power management, to bring value solutions to our customers.

So I'd like to reinforce our commitment to the four areas. I've talked a lot about this before. And these are managing our mix, driving disciplined execution, winning more design-led business and of course, consistently driving free cash flow. I strongly believe that combining these with the right type of growth will be the core of our strategy. Our performance this quarter and for fiscal 2020 demonstrates that we're delivering on our commitments. This consistent performance will serve as a platform for us to focus on profitable growth and invest to drive our long-term strategy. Of course, there's still a lot of work to do and more potential to harness. But our consistent performance over the last three quarters, really positions us well on the path to profitable growth. So overall, I'm really pleased with our performance this quarter. We're making progress on our goals, and I'm confident that our positive momentum will continue.

I'll turn this over to Chris for our quarterly financial results and then I'll come back with some closing remarks. Chris?

Christopher Collier -- Chief Financial Officer

Thank you, Revathi. Please turn to slide six for our third quarter income statement summary. Our third quarter revenue totaled $6.5 billion and was above our guidance range. Our Q3 adjusted operating income was $256 million, which was above our guidance range and remained roughly the same year-over-year despite a $461 million decline in revenues. Our adjusted net income was $193 million, resulting in adjusted earnings per share of $0.38. This was up 10% year-over-year and was above our guidance range. Third quarter GAAP net income of $111 million was lower than our adjusted net income primarily due to $19 million of stock-based compensation, $14 million in net intangible amortization and $49 million in net restructuring and other charges.

Now please turn to slide seven for our quarterly financial highlights. Our third quarter adjusted gross profit was up 1% year-over-year to $459 million, while our adjusted gross margin improved a healthy 60 basis points year-over-year to 7.1%. This represents our third consecutive quarter of year-over-year gross margin expansion, reflecting improved operational execution and a richer mix of business. Our adjusted SG&A expense increased 3% year-over-year to $203 million this quarter, resulting in SG&A as a percentage of revenue to be 3.1% as we continue to manage with strong cost which provides us sustainable operating leverage. We continued to improve our profitability and our operating margin by managing portfolio mix, improving operational performance and sustaining cost control. This quarter, our adjusted operating income was $256 million. Our year-over-year adjusted operating margin expanded by nearly 30 basis points to 4%, which reflects our sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year margin expansion.

Now turn to slide eight for our third quarter business group performance. Each of our business groups either met or exceeded our revenue guidance. HRS revenue was $1.2 billion, up 3% year-over-year, driven by automotive growing 7%, which offset a 1% decline in health solutions. Automotive grew as we continued to scale multiple new programs across its portfolio. Health solutions was modestly weaker as new business growth was offset by lower demand from certain legacy programs. Revenue for our IEI business grew 20% year-over-year to $2 billion, which exceeded our prior guide of up 10% to 15%. IEI experienced broad strength across its portfolio, with notable growth from our energy customers as well as growth in home and lifestyle programs. CEC revenue declined 17% year-over-year to $1.9 billion, which was better than our guidance and reflective of reduced demand with certain telecom and networking customers as well as the impact from our Huawei settlement, which was completed last quarter. Lastly, CTG performed as expected as revenue declined 25% from the prior year to $1.3 billion due to the effects of reducing our exposure to high-volatility, low-margin, short-cycle businesses and our targeted CTG portfolio repositioning activities.

Turning to profitability. We're pleased to deliver adjusted operating profit above our guidance and to expand our adjusted operating margin to 4%. HRS generated $82 million of adjusted operating profit and a 6.6% adjusted operating margin. HRS margin was a function of the mix of its business and reflects the ongoing ramp of our largest-ever health solutions program as it moves toward full-scale production in fiscal 2021. IEI set a record quarterly adjusted operating profit of $124 million and pushed its adjusted operating margin to 6.3%. It continues to benefit from good commercial discipline and a richer mix of business with greater design and engineering content. CEC delivered $53 million of adjusted operating profit and a 2.8% adjusted operating margin as management took distinct actions to CEC's cost structure and it also benefited from improved sequential revenue contribution. Finally, CTG posted a 1.8% adjusted operating margin as it remained pressured during our portfolio transition and ongoing repositioning of its operating structure.

Turning to slide nine. Let us review our cash flow generation highlights. Our third quarter performance displayed strong cash flow execution. We continue to operate with good discipline over our net working capital and our capital expenditures. Net working capital this quarter benefited from favorable timing for customer payments and a continued improvement in our inventory management. This quarter, we ended with $3.7 billion or 56 days' worth of inventory, down 5% or three days year-over-year. We remain focused on further inventory management improvements as we drive multiple actions across the company. Our net capital expenditures totaled $55 million for the quarter, significantly lower than depreciation. We are operating with control over our capex spend, and this quarter, we also benefited from $49 million in proceeds as we continue to reposition and optimize our operating system. We are operating a well built out global infrastructure and are benefiting from prior years' investments that are now supporting new technologies, products and programs. We also continue to leverage our existing assets to redeploy installed capacity where it is needed among different sites and businesses, which is a notable strength of our global system. We remain confident that we are sufficiently invested to support profitable long-term growth in our higher-margin businesses. As we enter the last quarter of fiscal 2020, we expect that our capex will continue to closely align with our annual depreciation level, thereby benefiting adjusted free cash flow. This quarter, we generated $238 million in adjusted free cash flow. We have generated positive adjusted free cash flow for five consecutive quarters as we operate with discipline and strive to generate adjusted free cash flow conversion in line with our historical levels. We remain focused on our commitment of delivering shareholder return as we repurchased over 5 million shares for $61 million during the quarter and over 4% of our outstanding shares over the last 12 months.

Lastly, we continue to operate with a balanced capital structure with staggered debt maturities and a relatively low average cost of debt. During the quarter, we issued $215 million of senior notes with a 10-year maturity and used proceeds and cash on hand to reduce our debt position by $200 million, which had the effect of extending our debt duration with minimal impact on interest expense.

Please turn to slide 10 for our fourth quarter guidance. Revenue is expected to be in the range of $5.8 billion to $6.2 billion and reflects more modest seasonality impacts than in prior years. HRS revenue is expected to be flat to up 5% as we anticipate continued auto demand growth as we ramp new programs coupled with a modest growth in our health solutions business. We expect sustained demand in IEI with 20% to 25% growth as it continues to experience broad strength across its portfolio in addition to ongoing new business ramps. CEC revenue is expected to be down 5% to 15% year-over-year, reflecting the distinct reductions in customer demand due to actions undertaken earlier this year coupled with persistent muted demand in telecom and networking. And for CTG, we expect revenue to be down 20% to 30%, reflecting the impact of targeted reductions of highly volatile products as part of our ongoing specific portfolio management efforts.

Our adjusted operating income is expected to be in the range of $220 million to $250 million, displaying continued adjusted operating margin expansion. Interest and other expense is estimated to be between $40 million to $45 million. We expect our tax rate in the quarter to remain in the mid-range of 10% to 15%. Adjusted EPS guidance is in the range of $0.30 to $0.34 per share based on weighted average shares outstanding of 510 million. Our adjusted EPS guidance excludes the impact of stock-based compensation expense, net intangible amortization and the impacts from our remaining restructuring and other charges. As a result, we expect a GAAP earnings per share in the range of $0.19 to $0.23. Lastly, I would like to note that our guidance excludes any potential impact from the coronavirus break given the rapidly evolving situation.

With that, let me turn it back over to Revathi for some closing comments before we open the call for Q&A.

Revathi Advaithi -- Chief Executive Officer

Thank you, Chris. After considering the fourth quarter guidance that Chris just provided, we now expect our annual EPS to be in the range of $1.25 to $1.29, which really nicely aligns with our commitment from April of $1.20 to $1.30. Our GAAP annual EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.26 to $0.30 and includes stock-based compensation expense, intangible amortization and restructuring and other charges. Since last year, the Flex team has been working really hard to establish a consistent and sustainable track record that you can have confidence in. Our results in Q3 and for the first nine months of our fiscal year are evidence that we're moving in the right direction, and we are focused on the right areas of consistently executing, delivering profitable growth and then meeting our commitments.

With that, I'm going to have the operator open the line for questions.


